First of all an embedded system is that system which has computer hardware with 
software embedded in it. An Embedded System is controlled by an internal microprocessor
 or microcontroller instead of an external control unit.Think of anything that provides 
you with programmable options. Any electronic system that allows users to interact, 
provides options for configuring behavior,is an embedded system.


These are some of the basic embedded systems that i found in my daily routine:

Digital Camera
Automated Teller Machine(ATM)
Calculator
Digital Watch
Security Camera
Washing Machine
Smart Phone
Telephone
Traffic Signals
Vending Machines
And list will go on.


Calculator - best real life example of embedded system :-

The calculator is the most common example of an embedded system, I must say.
We all used calculators in our daily life to solve our mathematical problems.
A calculator is the embedded system that was developed very early.
In it we give input from the keyboard, the embedded system performs the gives function like 
Add, Subtract etc and displays the result on LCD.
Nowadays, the scientific calculators are used. They have a very high-performance processor
These calculators have the ability to perform the complex mathematical functions.
These calculators can be programmable.It is just because of the embedded system,
 that these scientific calculators are advanced in their function as compared to simple calculators..

An electronic calculator was one of the first applications of an embedded microcontroller.
.It is considered an embedded system because in addition to calculating answers, it is also 
handling low level functions such as input from the keypad and output to the LCD screen.
And it is a dedicated system for performing mathematical operation.Physicists and engineers use
 scientific calculators, which are much more advanced than standard calculators. These calculators
 have large screens that can display graphs or multiple lines of calculations.


Applications of calculator :-

Used for performing calculations involving addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, roots, powers,
 exponentiation, logarithms, trigonometric functions, inverse trigonometric functions, iterative solutions
 for transcendental equations, differential and integral calculus, elementary statistics and matrix algebra. 
In addition to straightforward calculation problems, the contest shall include geometric and stated
 problems similar to those found in recently adopted high school algebra, geometry, and trigonometry, 
pre-calculus and calculus.

References :-
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Embedded_system
https://www.slideshare.net/Terminatorsos/the-calculator-71596281


